The topic that we have found the most interest in is in the analysis and graphing of community networks. 
More specifically, we intend to study and expound on how specifically community detection is performed and 
how these processes involve linear algebra. Community detection is a fascinating application of mathematical 
graphing techniques with uses in the observation of social networking apps, as is done by companies like 
Facebook for the sake of analytics, and in the study of more organic structures, such as protein interaction 
networks or even real world institutions. 
One notable and interesting example of graphing community networks that we will apply our learnings to is 
the network of crafting recipes in the popular game Minecraft. In this example from Reddit, nodes present 
crafting ingredients and edges represent two recipes sharing the same two crafting ingredients. Thus, 
following the properties of community network graphs,  ingredients that are used in many recipes 
(and thus have many edges) have a larger node size compared to ingredients that aren’t as common 
for crafting recipes.



We have identified some useful sources regarding this project. The first is “Communities in Networks” by 
Mason A. Porter, Jukka-Pekka Onnela, and Peter J. Mucha, which will provide an overview of community detection,
its uses in various fields, and how network graphs are made. This overview is bolstered by “Social Media Analysis 
and Recommending [sic] Systems: An Introduction to Community Detection” by Lei Tang and Huan Liu, Morgan and Claypool.
The community network graphs are built on linear algebra principles, specifically adjacency matrices used to 
represent unordered, finite graphs. In each of these adjacency matrices, the elements of the matrix indicate 
whether pairs of nodes are adjacent (or connected) or not in the graph. The adjacency matrix can be used to 
calculate the strength of connections in the network, and is a good example of how linear algebra can be 
applied to visualize graphs.
